                  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                          VOLUNTEERS AGREEMENT

                   Thomas Markey <admin@fosshost.org>
                  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


Table of Contents
─────────────────

1. Induction and Training
2. Probationary Period
3. Supervision, support and flexibility
4. Expenses
5. Health and safety
6. Insurance
7. Equal opportunities
8. Problems and Insubordination
9. Age Requirements
10. Values
11. Remuneration
12. Notice Period
13. Gross Misconduct / Suspension
14. Benefits
15. Policies, Procedures and Processes
16. Confidentiality
17. Full and Complete Agreement, Maintenance, and Severability


VERSION: 1.2 STATUS: Published LAST MODIFIED BY: Thomas Markey <EMAIL
REDACTED> LAST REVIEWED BY: Corwin, for the Board <EMAIL REDACTED>
Thomas Markey, Corwin Brust, Nate Sales, Jonathan Fernyhough, Nikola
Stojkovic (chair) LAST REVIEW DATE: 31 October 2021 NEXT REVIEW DUE
DATE: 31 October 2022 CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL (with signature
affixed) or (otherwise) PUBLIC

This document is the agreement between Fosshost and you, a volunteer
agreeing to help us.

‣ It outlines what is expected when you become (or stop being) a
  Fosshost volunteer
‣ It broadly defines the voluntary position you are accepting when you
  sign it
‣ It requires you to seek understanding of our values, policies and
  organization
‣ It requires you adhere to an ethical and professional code of conduct


SUMMARY
═══════

  This document (“Volunteer Agreement”) was updated 31th October 2021
  and is an agreement between Fosshost C.I.C, a community interest
  company registered in England and Wales, Great Britain. Registered
  Office Address 7 Bell Yard London WC2A 2JR; and “you”, as undersigned.


  This Volunteer Agreement describes the arrangement between us,
  Fosshost, and you (the volunteer) concerning your voluntary work. This
  agreement intends to assure you that we appreciate your volunteering
  with us and indicates our commitment to to make your volunteer
  experience a positive and rewarding one as best we can.


1 Induction and Training
════════════════════════

  We will provide training and induction to all new volunteers. During
  this time, you are required to ask questions, write down notes, refer
  to training material, and spend your time learning our systems and
  processes.  All volunteers are expected to help new volunteers learn
  and grow.


2 Probationary Period
═════════════════════

  A three-month probationary period begins when you sign this agreement.
  This ensures things are working out for both you and us. During this
  time, you and we are free to end the relationship for any reason. If
  you continue to volunteer after the probationary period and do not
  have a probationary review meeting, you can safely assume that you
  have passed your probation. If your probation is unsuccessful, we will
  notify you about this within three months.  If we terminate your
  volunteer relationship after this period we will notify and provide
  the reason unless we are prohibited from doing so, for example by law
  or our own publicly shared policies.


3 Supervision, support and flexibility
══════════════════════════════════════

  Fosshost is led by our CEO (Thomas Markey).  Day to day operations are
  led by our COO (Corwin Brust).  The Fosshost board provides executive
  direction to the project.  We have named a number of Company Officers
  who assist this group in ensuring we meet the legal and ethical
  obligations of our project.  Finally, we have named a number of
  Capability Domain Owners, who are the primary experts regarding given
  parts of the technology and services we provide. You will take
  direction from one or several of these leaders depending on your
  duties.


  You are responsible to seek to understand our organization structure,
  to do your best to receive and follow direction from the most
  appropriate leader, and to promptly raise concerns such as suspected
  or demonstrable malfeasance, harassment, or violations of law or of
  our policies.


  Where a capability has no named lead, responsibility rests with our
  COO, CEO, and Board.  We expect all volunteers to freely share
  information with each other, especially to trust respective leads with
  whatever information or access is requested.  Specific concerns in
  this regard must be raised to the Fosshost board or otherwise may be
  considered insubordination.


  As a volunteer, you are expected to support each of your peers by
  sharing your views and by following the directions you receive. We
  appreciate that we will not always agree and encourage
  discussion/debate and thus evolution of all elements of Fosshost;
  however, at times our leads will require you to follow directions
  whether or not you agree.


  Fosshost adopts a flexible working environment and way of working. All
  volunteers can work from home and use their own devices (BYOD).  We do
  not mandate any set number of hours per day or week. However, we ask
  that all volunteers contribute actively. If you are absent for an
  extended period, we will review and may terminate your volunteer role.


  We ask that each volunteer make and keep commitments regarding
  availability to the project. There is no minimum but the general
  guideline is that each volunteer will be available to the project at
  least two (2) hours each month. We expect that volunteers will let us
  know in advance of long periods of absence and inform us of changes to
  their more general availability. Further availability expectations
  apply to leaders; these are established on a case by case basis.


4 Expenses
══════════

  We prefer that Fosshost make direct payments to vendors and suppliers;
  however, you may be able to claim expenses, such as mileage or
  meals/refreshments when conducting a data centre visit or attending a
  conference for Fosshost, and for other reasonable and necessary
  purposes.


  You are required to request approval prior to incurring costs for
  which you expect reimbursement. Our Chief Financial Officer (Lillaia
  Christensen, CFO) or our board (including our COO and CEO) are the
  only persons entitled to approve and reimburse expenses.


5 Health and safety
═══════════════════

  To ensure a safe working environment and in the best interests of your
  health, Fosshost has an Occupational Health advisor. The advisor is
  independent of Fosshost and can work with you remotely to understand
  any related concerns and can make suggestions to us on your behalf.


6 Insurance
═══════════

  You are entitled to have insurance in place to protect you whilst you
  complete duties at Fosshost as a volunteer, excepting whilst you are
  in transit, for example going to visit a data centre on-site or
  to/from a conference. Please speak to the COO, CEO or another board
  member if relevant.


7 Equal opportunities
═════════════════════

  Fosshost prides itself on operating a diverse working environment for
  you to enjoy and participate in. Everybody is made to feel welcome,
  regardless of their background or culture. Fosshost is a very diverse
  org.  We do not tolerate harassment of any person for any reason.


8 Problems and Insubordination
══════════════════════════════

  Everybody within Fosshost is approachable, including all leaders and
  our Board of Directors.  We wish to have an inclusive environment
  where anybody can freely raise their concerns.


  Fosshost may treat failure to comply with this policy as ignoring
  direction, thus insubordination.


  Insubordination is a cause for discipline and inasmuch may include, at
  our sole option, our creating of records documenting the problem,
  reassignment/change in duties, revocation of authority, loss of
  access, and/or termination of your relationship with Fosshost as a
  volunteer.


  The Chief People Officer (Alyx Wolcott, CPO), as well as the Fosshost
  board (including our CEO and COO), have authority to immediately
  terminate your relationship with Fosshost.


  We prefer to raise concerns, even those regarding how we work
  together, in our normal communications forums, so discussions may be
  open to our full team.  Feedback should always be expressed in a
  friendly and kindly supportive manner.  However, we recognize that in
  some serious instances (for example, such as harassment: something we
  have absolutely no tolerance for), volunteers may not be comfortable
  sharing their concerns broadly. All volunteers are expected to bring
  such concerns directly to the attention of our CPO or, at each
  volunteer's preference, may express such concerns to our COO, our CEO,
  or our full Board of Directors.


9 Age Requirements
══════════════════

  We require all volunteers to be over the age of 16 years of
  age. However, we may consider exceptions to this on a case-by-case
  basis with parental / guardian consent. This is to protect Fosshost
  against any claims for child labour.  If you are a volunteer under the
  age of 16, you agree that we can obtain permission from your parent or
  guardian, and understand that you are doing this for your own good and
  because you want to help Free and Open Source projects.


10 Values
═════════

  Fosshost has some crucial values which we expect volunteers to
  adopt. These are honesty, transparency, accountability,
  professionalism and unity.  By being a volunteer, you agree to these
  values and commit observing and portraying them in and by all your
  contributions. Further, we expect all volunteers to conduct themselves
  with a high degree of professionalism.


11 Remuneration
═══════════════

  Typically we do not pay any volunteers (including any director) at
  Fosshost. However, we do have an expenses system in place, and may
  from time to time, on a case by case basis, expend project
  funds/resources to support volunteers, for example with equipment to
  ensure that they can complete their duties. Occasionally, we host
  social nights as our way of saying “thank you”.


12 Notice Period
════════════════

  Once a volunteer has passed probation, we kindly request that a
  volunteer provide one month's notice in writing if you would like to
  end your volunteering. This helps us ensure a smooth handover of
  knowledge and responsibilities. We also require you to destroy, when
  this notice period ends or when discovered, any confidential
  information, documents, passwords, records, notes, security keys, pins
  and/or any other non-public Fosshost related information you possess.
  This does not include any information specific to your projects hosted
  with Fosshost.


13 Gross Misconduct / Suspension
════════════════════════════════

  Fosshost takes staff conduct and professionalism exceptionally
  seriously. Any volunteer who commits gross misconduct may have their
  volunteer role terminated immediately or suspended pending further
  investigation. Gross misconduct is behaviour by a volunteer which is
  so severe that it goes to the root of the volunteer agreement and
  destroys the relationship between you and us. Examples of gross
  misconduct include theft, physical violence, gross negligence or
  insubordination and harassment. Directors are not exempt; documents
  filed with the UK CIC registrar (“Articles”) allow us to immediately
  dismiss any board member on these same grounds.


14 Benefits
═══════════

  We provide a number of benefits to volunteers. We offer (but do not
  require you accept):


  ‣ Access to our services for personal projects, and experimentation
    and development
  ‣ Access to an independent occupational health advisor
  ‣ Mentoring from the Board of Directors and your other peers on the
    team
  ‣ Promotion, the prospect of your volunteer role as a progression
  ‣ Social and team building activities
  ‣ Expense system


15 Policies, Procedures and Processes
═════════════════════════════════════

  Fosshost operates according to an established set of written policies
  and procedures, which document our approach and processes, of which
  this document forms a part.


  This ensures that we conduct our work according to the legal, ethical
  and mutual commitments we have made, and help us choose/approve, safe
  and controlled methods. Please be mindful of our information systems
  and take care to ensure that your knowledge is up to date by referring
  to new information which will allow the organisation to become more
  efficient.  Importantly, this helps us reduce mistakes and provide
  high quality and reliable service to our community.


  Our policies (in draft) may be found on our GitHub Policy Repository:

  <https://github.com/fosshostorg/policy>


  To this extent there may be differences between this document and
  information found on that policy, this document should be considered
  as superior, meaning better and more accurate.  Once the policies
  found at the link are completed and approved (and are so noted in the
  repository linked above) they will then be superior to this document
  (in case of any differences).


  In all cases we are governed by our articles, which form our legal
  charter.  Our Articles are filed with Companies House in England and
  Wales. Our Articles are superior to this document in case of any
  discrepancy.


16 Confidentiality
══════════════════

  Confidential discussions are those which relate to Fosshost and which
  you understand (or have been asked) not to disclose apart from the
  with/to the intended audience. While we share as much information
  about our project as we can, that does not mean that
  anything/everything about our work is appropriate to share.  This is
  vital to maintaining the trust of our sponsors, as well as the many
  large and established projects who use our services.  These
  organizations may be depended upon by governments and other
  institutions of trust, and thus that trust may depend on our
  discretion.  When in any doubt as to confidentiality confirm with a
  member of the Fosshost board, or to an officer of Fosshost named in
  this agreement, before sharing the information in question.  We expect
  you will act with grace and professionalism in choosing what and with
  whom to share as well as in responding to requests for information.


17 Full and Complete Agreement, Maintenance, and Severability
═════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

  This document is the full and complete volunteer agreement.  We will
  share with you a draft of any update we make thirty (30) days prior to
  it being final; you are bound upon receipt of each final version. By
  signing below you are agreeing to all terms herein. You further agree,
  if any part of this agreement is found to be unenforceable, you are
  yet bound by all that remains.


        I understand and I agree to do my best to abide by this
        agreement in carrying out my duties.

        Full Name






        Signature






        Date
